Permission updates (#685)
CloudCannon/platform-documentation: developer/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups.mdx

> 
> We want to create a Permission Group where members cannot see any existing Sites in the Organization but can add new Sites, which they can then see and edit. This type of Permission Group might work well to keep teams within your Organization from accessing each other’s content. In this case, we should add the resource `site:create` but not `site:read` to our permission.
> 
> The create action allows you to create new instances of a resource (in this example, Sites). When you create an instance of a resource, CloudCannon automatically grants Read and Write permission for that instance to each Custom Permission Group that gave you permission to create it. All members of those Groups can then access the new instance. By choosing not to add `site:read` to this permission, existing Sites in our Organization will not appear in the CloudCannon interface.
> 
> You can only grant permissions that you already hold. When you create or edit a Custom Permission Group, CloudCannon checks each permission you add against your own permissions and blocks any resource you do not hold at that scope. For example, if you have `site:read` but not `site:write`, you cannot add `site:write` to a Group. The same rule applies to file globs — you can only grant access to files you can already read or write yourself, so a file glob you add must fall within your own file access. Adding an exception is not subject to this check, as an exception only removes access. This prevents team members from using Group management permissions to gain access they were never given.
> 
> How CloudCannon checks a file glob you grant depends on the scope of the permission:
> 
> * **Site scope** — CloudCannon compares the glob against your own file access on that Site. The grant succeeds when your access there covers the glob, whether you hold unrestricted file access or a permission glob matching the same files or more.
> * **Project or Global scope** — the grant covers every Site in the scope, including Sites created in the future, so CloudCannon applies a stricter check. Your covering access must be held at the same scope or above: a Global permission glob covers a grant at any scope, a Project permission glob covers grants on that Project, and fully unrestricted file access covers everything. Access assembled Site by Site never qualifies, no matter how many Sites it spans — to delegate your Site-level access, grant a Site-scoped permission for each Site instead.
> 
> Exceptions make this check stricter. If an exception limits your file access, you cannot grant file globs for that action — even globs the exception does not touch. At Site scope, this only applies to exceptions affecting that Site; at Project or Global scope, any exception applies. Exceptions themselves can contain file globs at any scope, as they only remove access.
> 
> Removing a permission or exception is checked the same way whenever it would widen access. Deleting an exception restores the access it was carving out, and deleting a file glob on a permission can expose a broader unrestricted permission, so CloudCannon requires you to hold the underlying resource at that scope before you can remove one. Deleting a plain permission only narrows access and is always allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s walk through an example.

We want to create a *Permission Group* that allows *Team Members* to add new *Sites* to the *Organization* (which they can then see and edit), but does not allow them to see any existing  *Sites* in the *Organization*. This type of *Permission Group* might work well to keep teams within your *Organization* from accessing each other’s content.

When we create the *Permission Group*, we can add a *Permission* that omits `site:read`, preventing *Team Members* from seeing existing *Sites* in the *Organization*, but includes `site:create`.

All create actions allow you to create new instances of a resource and then read and write to it. In this example, CloudCannon automatically grants the `site:read` and `site:write` permissions for all *Sites* created using `site:create`. CloudCannon adds these new permissions to each *Custom Permission Group* that gave you permission to create it, and all members of those *Groups* can then access and edit that *Site*.
```

> Custom Permission Groups can include permissions with different scopes. For example, you might want to create a Group that can approve Pull Requests for a specific Project and manage the Domain associated with one Site in that Project. This Permission Group would contain two permissions: one with a Project scope and the resource `site:publish:pull-request:merge:write`, and one with a Base Domain scope and the resource `base-domain:write`.
> 
> Scope also applies to the create action. For example, the resource `site:create` with a Project scope will allow members of the Permission Group to create new Sites within the chosen Project, but not elsewhere in your Organization. Likewise, an exception for `site:create` scoped to a Project prevents members from creating Sites in that Project without affecting the rest of your Organization.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Custom Permission Groups* can include permissions with different *Scopes*. For example, you might want to create a *Group* that can approve *Pull Requests* for a specific *Project* and manage the *Custom Domain* associated with one *Site* in that *Project*. This *Permission Group* would contain two permissions: one with a *Project* scope and the resource `site:publish:pull-request:merge:write`, and one with a *Base Domain* scope and the resource `base-domain:write`.

*Scopes* can also have *Exceptions*. For example, you might want a *Group* to be able to create *Sites* across your *Organization*, except for in one *Project*. An *Exception* for `site:create` scoped to a *Project*, combined with a Global scope `site:create` *Permission* can accomplish this.
```
